---
title: First look at Hugo
category: notes
tags:
    - Hugo
    - fast
    - comfort zone
    - nudge
    - static site generator
    - front matters
draft: true
keywords:
    - Hugo
    - First post
---

## first post explaining why and how?
Because this is the first post I wanted to start of by why and how I setup my docs!

## why?

### Comfort zone
I want to get out of my **comfort zone** and start sharing and creating! I consume a lot of content around programming and I also want to contribute by creating this space with things I find interesting!

### Nudge myself
I really don't have the motivation to continue with projects when I'm finally done with my day in the evening and the kids is asleep! I find it very easy to instead watch a show *but* I want to create more and I think the need for content will **nudge** me to create more!

## how
### Hugo
I asked two friends with blogs what tools they used and one of my friends was using wordpress and the other friend was using **Hugo**. I already have some experience with Wordpress but as a true frontend developer I ofc had tunnel vision on the tool I had no experience of **Hugo**.

I started of by going to [their site](https://gohugo.io/) and clicked *Quick Start*

I followed the simple step by step guide and was really impressed by the speed it was building and serving, it was almost on instant keypress or maybe that's how it feels like coming from the code base I spend my working days in 😂. I picked a [theme](https://themes.gohugo.io/hugo-theme-cactus/) that looked nice and I was already up and running with the docs, it was a quick and easy setup!

I just had to understand how it worked a bit more and looked at a few tutorials on youtube and then started creating my own "theme" by looking at the premade theme files and I really like how the `.html` templates and the content `.md` files together create the page!

All the content `.md` files have a yaml syntax in the top that **Hugo** call front matter where you specify metadata that you use in the templates:

```md
---
title: First look at Hugo
date: 2021-06-08 22:24:55
category: static site generator
tags: 
- Hugo
- fast
- comfort zone
- nudge
- static site generator
- front matters
draft: true
keywords:
    - Hugo
    - First post
---
```

Then the title can be used in the html files using this Go template syntax that looks like `{{ .Title }}` and notice all the metadata is capitalized. This is how the title is used in the `list.html` file in the theme I'm currently using now:

```html
<a class="" href="{{ .Permalink }}">{{ if .Title }} {{ .Title }} {{ else }} Untitled {{ end }}</a>
```


